title: Browsers on Devices - Field Upgrading Requirement.
date: 2006-05-23



All complex software has bugs. All complex software that
accepts data from untrusted sources will have security
holes. This is no big secret. After shipping Firefox 1.5, we
have fixed about 17 vulnerabilities of varying degree. This
is in a period of about six months or so. Other browsers,
have had similar stories. Some worse, some better.

On the desktop, when a patch to a security hole is released,
your software usually notices it and alerts your to get the
update. Windows Update now has an option to do this without
your involvement a feature that always keeps you
up-to-date. This is perfect for most users.

On devices, there is no such story. I have been told that
they way you upgrade a phone is that you buy a new
one!. This would be nice for the device maker but terrible
for the environment and any operator that subsidizes. Over
the air (OTA) installation

As browsing on a device becomes more popular, the field
upgrade problem will become much more serious.

Suppose that I just bough a new phone running Windows CE 5.0
from a local operator. It comes with Pocket IE my default
(which sounds a lot like what they did on the desktop
remember the Netscape lawsuit. Does anyone know if Platform
Builder allows you to build without PIE?). Now suppose that
PocketIE has a critical security flaw. How does it get
fixed?

A couple of things have to come together. First, Microsoft
has to fix the problem. Then the operator that I bought it
from needs to put together a new ROM and someone notify me
of this. Then I need to (usually) opt in to upgrade. This
upgrade will remove all of my saved data on the device
unless I backed up. What a mess! There has to be a better
way to upgrade software on the device.

Of course, this process hasn't been used very often as it
probably hasn't been needed all that much. But as browsers
hit devices, frequent user-friendly field updates are going
to be a required feature of any serious device story.
