title: Exposing Geo-Location in Minimo
date: 2006-07-14


Exposing Geo-Location safely in the browser is a compelling
idea. If a web site knows where you are physically located
on earth it may be able to deliver more interesting content.
This also raises HUGE privacy concerns which we need to nail
down.

For example, suppose you were at the airport and you used
your web browser on your phone and hit aa.com or some other
airline's home page. If aa.com has your location, if it
knew that you were at one of its terminals, the website
would be enabled to show you specific information about
arrival and departures from the airport you are in without
you actually having to do anything.

Another example, what if fandango.com saw that you were in
the 95051 zip code and immediatly offered movies from that
area. They already must ask for your zip code, and if you
choose to give it to them, you have to press at least 6
buttons. If the phone knew, you would have at most one (a
confirmation to send your location to fandango).

Recently, I enabled GPS support in Minimo. If you have a
WM5 device and a GPS, you can begin to explore this new
functionality. Don't worry, even if you have this WM5 and a
GPS, you have to manually enable this support.

To get started, you need to enable your GPS via the GPS
control panel in WM5. We have some ideas of what to do for
linux and for windows ce devices that do not have this
control panel (email me if interested).

To configure this, Keni Barwick has a great overview of what
you have to do. Even if you do not see a GPS Control Panel,
Keni will show you the way. (http://blogs.conchango.com/kenibarwick/archive/2006/03/19/3119.aspx).

Once this your GPS is configured via this setup, Minimo
still will not be able to use it. What you will have to do
is enable a preference in minimo. To do this, you need to
add:

        pref("gps.enabled", true);

Once this is set, you are geo-location enabled. :-)

Any time any site asks you for this information, you will be
presented with a dialog asking you to confirm that this is
what you want to do (similar to the checks that we have in
place when a site requests to install software on your
machine).

The only working demo of this functionality is here:

    http://www.meer.net/~dougt/wai.html

It basically puts up a google map centered exactly where
your GPS says you are, then puts a point on the map on that
location. You can walk around and see this little point
move. This example needs alot of help to become useful
your changes are welcome. ;-) I am not doing any real
logging on the site, but of course realize that you are
going to be sending meer.net your exact location.

The code is pretty simply:

    var gps = new window.GPSService;

    var lon = gps.longitude;
    var lat = gps.latitude;
    var alt = gps.altitude;

This is subject to change as I need further input from
people that know more about geo location stuff and probably
from some of the people interested in the window
namespace. ;-)

What does this all mean and for what purpose?

This GPS stuff is to showcase some of the really interesting
things that you can do when you bring together, location
data and a browser. It also is a call for help. I am going
to need help on the following which you may be able to aide
in:

a) is this the right API?

b) is the unit (lat/log; meters for alt) the right thing?
how do we plugin in other data sources and continue to have
similar units.

c) is there a better privacy model? maybe tiered so that we
have levels of like only give out the general area
(e.g. zip code).

d) where do we propose something like this so that we do not
have browser fragmentation.
