title: IE7 low rights notes
date: 2006-10-05



IE7 on vista runs in a protected mode. All request of the
operating system, such as 'open a file' are tightly
control. In fact, the windows registry and file system are
segmented in such a way that allows this protected mode to
write volital changes without effecting the rest of the
machine.

This significantly reduces the vulnerability surface area of
IE - Even if you could get an evil activeX control install
temporarily, it would be running with low permissions
therefore you wouldn't be able to comprise the rest of the
system easily. You would still be able to steal passwords,
etc. But It would be very hard to write files to the hard
disk, read from the My Documents folder, etc. Although if an
exploit exists, you probably could write keyboard sniffer in
the browser for the given session.

Firefox (and just about every other piece of software
currently available), currently, runs as a normal
application on Vista. Firefox is prevented from writing to
Program Files, and other global places. But we can certainly
write to the Documents and Settings, etc. So, an exploit
could mean the user can be effected, but the system itself
(including other users) will not be effected.

So, the difference between a low process and a normal
process, in terms of browser security, is that a low process
means that an exploit will not render the given user or
system completely owned by the attacker. A normal process
being exploited will have all of the permissions that a
normal users has on the machine.

Now, I am sure your asking, "well, how does ie7 open local
content, or save a preference?" Well, opening a file: url
will result in a IE window that is in normal mode. Only
local code can be loaded in such a instance of IE (browsing
to http://www.mozilla.org from file://foopy results in a new
instance of IE which loads the website). For persistent
storage like a preference, IE7 uses COM to send a message to
a broker which is running with normal permissions.

So, an interesting attack vector would be trying to see if
this IPC was indeed secure from content. IE7's security
depends on this.

Should Firefox use Low Mode?

This is a good question. If we followed IE7 and had a broker
which ran at normal permission mode, we would have to funnel
all reads, writes, preference access, sqlite calls, through
it. We would have to move cache out into a low specific
directory and figure out how best to make some thing stick
between sessions, etc. Then the key is to harden this broker
so that we somehow new that the call was legit. We then
would have to ensure that the performance of all of this
proxying was acceptable.

Would this by us some piece of mind. Probably not. We will
have to continue to be on our toe about security
vunerablities releasing fixes as fast as possible, continue
to do security audits, etc. Moving to Low Rights is not a
silver bullet but it is something we should consider as
defense in depth.



