title: UAProf, UA, and fragmentation
date: 2006-04-04



This article is all guess work, pieced together by user
comments, and my imagination.

The operator ?? offers a Flat Rate data plan for $5 a
month. This is quite a bargain. Many people have been using
it also for their laptops (probably connected to the network
via their cell phone). To prevent this type of usage, ??
requires certain HTTP headers be sent by the browser to
their proxy.

First they require that the user agent be:

      Mozilla/2.0 (compatible; MSIE 3.02; Windows CE; 240x320

Secondly, they require a UAProf be sent. This http header
allows the server to figure out what kind of device is
actually making the request.

The header looks like:

x-wap-profile: http://URL_TO_XML

The url points to some XML describing what the device
actually is.

The intent here is that the operator wants to ensure that
only its phones + ie use their proxy and ultimately their
bit pipe. There is nothing terrible about this -- after all,
these are choices that corporations can and do make. If i
wanted to start a cell company and only wanted to support
minimo + my DougTPhone(tm), I have nothing stopping me. It
would be a bad choice, but still I am empowered to make that
choice.

The problem is they way they invoked the technology to
support their choice. They could have done just about
anything if they thought of this problem before they had
phones deployed in the field. For example, they could have
sent the IMEA number to the proxy via a header then compared
it to a table (hand wave over the performance, privacy, and
security of this idea). However, knowing about this problem
probably wasn't the case. Their phones+browsers were already
deployed and they needed to simply restrict the laptops from
chewing up their bandwidth.

PocketIE already sends out a UA string and UAProf header as
I described above. So, the obvious solution is to ensure
those two fields are checked by the proxy. I would imagine
it would take a very short time to ensure that this check
was correctly made on all of the proxies.

Everything is roses now. The laptops now are blocked from
using this proxy for their data connections and all is good.

Well, no people that were using this service are now pissed
off. Using their laptops to connect had worked and now it
doesn't. Now, if your are using your laptop over a GSM
connections, you are probably a geek and geeks tend to be
smart. :-) So, someone from this pool of users realize that
their browser on their phone still can use the data
connection. Now, people started thinking about what could be
the difference and within a few minutes, someone figures out
the change. Next, within a few seconds, someone has a patch
that will make their Firefox browser lie about what headers
it sends.

This is great for the users -- they can continue using a
cheap data connection anywhere they want. For the operator,
it is not as bad as before where you had anyone with a
laptop using their connection  now it is only the people
that do a Yahoo! Search for the right key search terms,
follow some shady instructions, including hacking their
Windows Registry, etc.

What is truly troubling is the fragmentation of what both
the UA string and the UAProf are suppose to do which is to
identify what kinda of thing is making a connection to
the server. Now you will have Opera's, Minimo's, etc,
running around claiming that they are someone that they are
not. Classic UA string problem extended into what the UAProf
was suppose to clear up.

The operator did nothing completely stupid or wrongheaded. I
would have probably suggested that they keep the proxies
open or bump the price.

Moral of the story: When users figure out that they can
toggle this nob or move this lever to get something a bit
better then they had before, they will do just that.

