title: Where 2.0, part 2
date: 2006-06-14

check out the zopto addressing system.

      /ca/santa+clara/san+jose/market+street/170
      /ca/san+francisco/san+francisco/-coit+tower/-the-stairs

Nothing new – this is the way we think when we think about a
location. Far more easier this way when compared to a
lat/long. I wonder if this is better for browser/server
communication? For example, if we exposed location
information to websites. By the way, this system is simply
the “hierarchy” attribute given by other mapping APIs.

see their business at: preview.zopto.com

Thinks to look at very soon:

* Labs.Metacarta.com
* OpenLayers.org
* Gutenkarte.org

Shoutpod from imity.com is a neat little application. They
keep track of the BT radio names. These radio name are
associated with a person. You are able to keep track of how
often you see these people. You can IM these BT names
(assuming you are near them), share calendars, share email
addresses. This is a cleaner way of business card sharing.
I think I use too many phones to make this work for me.
What about when I lose my phone — do I lose my friends too?

In case you didn’t know (i didn’t), xAL is the international
format for exchanging Lat/Long.

Google now has a geocoding API. They are also launching an
enterprise map support. (as lars putting people wanted to
pay for the google API, and now they are letting them)

gsmloc.org is doing something that I have seen done in
Europe — people (geeks) drive around with a GPS and a
phone. They have some application running on the phone that
gets the cell tower id that the phone is connected to. This
cell tower id and the current lat/long from the GPS is then
uploaded to some server. When you get lots of people doing
this (or a few people given a long time), you can begin to
ask the questions “What is my lat/long for the cell tower
that my phone sees”. The accuracy must be pretty rough. I
am pretty sure that the operators are doing more than this
for their 911 requirement. For some reason, i also have
this url written down in my notes:
crschmidt.net/service/map. Probably should check this out
too.

There was a demo for gumspots.com. I have not idea if this
is a serious thing or not. The presention was “silly” — i
really didn’t get if they were trying to joke with us or
not. I should have had some coffee after lunch.

Pixie Hunt is a outdoor adventure game buy a few microsoft
employees. If you ever played “the go game”
(http://www.thegogame.com/), this pixie hunt is a direct rip
off done a bit more on the high end in terms of materials
used. They use flickr for the image backend, use GPSs to
track all the users, you can see all of the users that you
are playing against as well as seeing their uploaded
images. Better game because of better tech? No.

Lauren Gelman of Stanford spoke about privacy. Nothing new
here really. The only big idea that I took away was that
“user expectation” of privacy is more important than just
about anything else. If you fall short of meeting that
expectation, you are failing to protect the enduser. I am
not sure how EULA fit into this picture though.

The stuff that Linden is doing with SecondLife and the
Google is doing with defining models in Google Earth is
scary. It might be the case that someone figures out a way
to use a google-like earth and walk (as a avatar) around –
maybe not so much to interact with other people, but maybe a
way to better figure out where something is. If I could get
a “feel” for exactly how to get somewhere buy virutally
walking (or flying) there, I probably would get lost alot
less.
