title: Where 2.0, part 1
date: 2006-06-13

I am at Where 2.0. So far have seen alot of cool demo's. Most have
looked very pretty on > 800x600 displays.

Microsoft Earth looks very cool. Sounds very easy to create
mash ups or in Microsoft speak “Mix-ins”. Through their
Community’s feature, people can add in their own content.
This is so much easier for end-users as they do not have to
know much about javascript, html, etc. Apparently you can
define a few lines (may even through a wizard) of RSS and
you get a mix up. Hmm. Not sure that this will work for
all case — like how do you deal with different different
formats of the mash-up data.

The GeoRSS talk was interesting. it seams to be the defacto
standard (except with Google). I wonder if there is a way
to specific a point then a range around the point (for
accuracy).

Things to look at when I have more time:

* Mapstration
* mapufacture
* http://www.mylocalguru.com/
* http://www.brainoff.com/weblog
* http://www.platial.com/splash

There are a bunch of companies that are allowing people add
their content (directions, stories, pictures) to google
maps. I think all are free to use. Not sure how these
places sustain revenue. Maybe it is custom services that
they offer.

I haven’t seen anyone twist this a bit with a social network
yet… I think that these user added locations we mean alot
more to me if they were from someone I knew or a FoF. Where
is the geo-location version of my-space/linked-in?

Google Earth is a required application for everyone. It is
simply beautiful. 20% of the earth is highres coverage and
about 1/3 of the people in the world. The caching is so
much better then what I used with Keyhole. The network here
at the event is terrible (due to so many people trying to
use it). This does not effect the demos.

Google is release or updating something called SketchUp. It
allows you to create content for the google maps. It will
allow users to create 3d Models. It is sorta like the
SecondLife editor but for the real world. The idea is that
people will create models for interesting buildings and
objects. I think I would rather see aerial images or
footage. Maybe this is for modeling the interior of
buildings? I do not get it.

Just finished lunch and now I am waiting for the next
presentations…. more to come.
