title: Where 2.0, part 3
date: 2006-06-15

Best 5 Geo Hacks ever was a nice session. It was a summary
of five greatest events in history for geography. Sorta
reminded me of the history channel, just live and a bit more
animated. Here are my brief notes:

1) Measurement of the earth by Eratosthenes within 15%
accuracy. (Earth being round at the time is a myth.)
The idea here is that it was said that somewhere on the
planet there was a place that the sun light hits the
bottom of a deep well on a specific day and time. This
means that this spot must mean the sun is directly above.
If you know this, and can measure the angle of this
sunlight some distance away, you can calculate the
distance of of the arc. I am sure that wikipedia has
details.

2) Galleio saw the moons of Jupiter. These moons can be
used to calculate the current time. Remember at the time
there was no really good timepiece. Time is a required
part of determining longitude back then.

3) Harry Beck drew the underground map in England. It was
revolutionary as it showed exactly what you need to know
when you are looking for train stations. Beck’s
background was electronics. If you are ever on a train
or bus, look at the posted map… it looks nothing like
the typical topography maps — it looks more like a
circuit diagram. You can thank Beck for that.. The
point being it is as important to decide what you are
going to leave out of a design as what you are going to
include.

4) VOR Systems. How do you map things that are not
physical.

5) Orientation by the moving star positions. Virtual
compass in the sky. The ancient sailors were made of
tough stuff. The were able to navigate the seas by
seeing slight variations of the position of stars in the
sky.

Gary Lang from Autodesk gave a talk on Open Source. The
theme was how does software migrate to open source?
According to the speaker, it has to do with “Core and
context” a concept deal with by the book “Dealing with
Darwin” by Geoffrey A. Moore.

Standards facilitate and drive migration to open source… it
because a community.

Suggested reading “Mirror Worlds” by Gelernter. This
explains a bit about what we are seeing with geospatial
life.

Why Autodesk went to Open source:
Faster development turn around
Users wanted it
It makes business sense for MapGuide, Map, topobase

There were a couple sessions on Open Source mapping
software. These are mostly map engineering tools. It
sounds like you can reproduce everything that google has
done (assuming that you owe that datasets) with open source
tools. There was even a call to Google to make Google Earth
itself open source.

Jim Greiner, the GM of MapQuest, gave a brief history of the
company. This focus was on how to make location
omnipresent.

The three truths when dealing with consumer needs and mass
market place are:

1) Focus on whatz truely useful to the consumer
2) Make it economically viability
3) Aim for the mass market consumer usge

He showed a DVD of a actually users. It was cheesy video of
people using MapQuest then driving to their location –
talking about how great mapquest is the whole time. I
wonder if they were acters or not.

Do you remember that MapQuest had aerial imagery in 2001?
It pulled it down because of low interst, no real way to
fund the business via advertising, and/or crappy usablity.

Mapquest showed some statics on usage. Mapquest is used
more for driving directions more than Yahoo and Google
combined.

Don Cooke of Tele Atlas discussed how TomTom’s during the
Katrina disaster. Primarily used for a GeoCoder, and points
of interest. He also showed some seriously crazy GPS hacks.
For example, he tied a GPS to his cat to see where it would
go, then plotted that on Google Maps. Another, used a GPS
to draw “Fun with GPS” in a field similar to what you see
with crop circles.

Overall the show was very intersted. however this
conference did not present any material or papers on
Location + Web. Maybe next year I will present a paper on
the work I was doing on extending the DOM to support
geoposition. More on this soon, i hope. :-) 
