title: Minimo, FTRD, and Demo's
date: 2005-10-13



It is clear that people want to ask of their phones/devices
three very simple questions:

where am I?
where is someone?
where is something?

The people want the answer without much typing or
clicking. And they want the answer with haste, without
clutter, and without having to dig through ads or other
unneeded content.

I predict this is will happen soon. Devices are getting
cheaper, faster, more powerful. Wireless is getting faster,
cheaper, and more available. Users are demanding more out of
their phones and pda.

I have been working with France Telecom Research and
Development (FTRD) out of Boston in the last few month some
of these problems. More specifically, I have continued my
work on a small standards based ajax-capable browser based
on Mozilla. This is basically what I have been calling
Minimo for some time now. [Brad][] Lassey and his team at FTRD
has a compelling idea in which mobile widgets based on
standards can help answer some of these questions. Below are
a few of their examples.

For example, people need to check on shipping
progress. Right now, you load whatever shipping companies
home page, click on some kind of tracking button, enter your
tracking ID and presto! our shipping information will be
presented. Of course, we all can see ways to optimized this
process. When you need to know when a UPS or FedEx package
is going to be delivered, you should just load a tracking
widget which allows you to directly enter a tracking ID for
various shippers - thus allowing you to quickly get the
information without too many cumbersome steps and its
presentation allows you to get exactly the data you are
interested in and nothing more.

Here is this very cool demo created by FTRD using Minimo
being presented to the press:

http://networks.silicon.com/mobile/0,39024665,39152969-6,00.htm

This next demo it totally cool. Matt Womer did an
outstanding job; It touches on the whole Location Based
Services aspect of mobile computing. This widget example
answers the question, "where is someone". I think of it as
Harry Potter's Marauder's Map. Imagine you are wondering
where your friend is. Instead of calling them, there could
be some kind of opt-in location service whereby, friends and
families can see exactly where you are. This demo simulates
a person driving down the street. This person has a
gps-enabled phone which is uploading location information to
a server. Now, friends and families can connect to a web
service which plots this location information on top of a
google map. The data is simulated; the data collected is
just constantly replayed.

http://www.notsosubtle.com/demo/demo.html

In case you haven't noticed, both of these demos work great
in Minimo. There are some other demo's but I will save those
for later.

Also in the news.. This article is somewhat misleading, but
it is nice to see we are mentioned.
http://www.computerworld.com/networkingtopics/networking/story/0,10801,105167,00.html?source=NLT_AM&nid=105167

[Brad]: http://alumni.media.mit.edu/~lassey/
