title: Fast Flash in Fennec
date: 2009-11-29

For the last few days, we have been making Flash fast in
Fennec.

Our situation in Fennec is that we have a hidden browser
element that contains the flash object/embed element. When a
paint needs to happen, we draw whatever the plugin wants to
draw into a canvas or sent of canvas elements. These canvas
elements are what the user sees on the screen — they are
part of Fennec’s tile manager. Now these draws to the tile
manager consistent of a 16bpp to 24bpp conversion (I am told
that the flash is optimized for 16bpp), then a copy to a
gfxXLibSurface, then a final blit to the screen. This final
bit also contains a 24bpp->16bpp conversion because the
screen is 16bpp. To make matters much worse, many plugins
intersect multiple canvases in the tile manager which causes
this drawing path to happen multiple times per video
frame. The end result is that we were getting no more than
4-5 fps.

We took some incremental steps to improvement performance,
but we were no where close to double digit fps.

At this point, we decided to just draw directly to the
screen avoiding the tile manager completely. This allowed us
to render without any conversions and only one copy — the
plugin could write directly to X11 shared memory.

In making this decision, we would lose a bunch of
information that Gecko provides such as where the plugin
should be position relative to other elements, and how it
should be clipped.Â  The solution we came up with was to let
Fennec tell each of the object and embed elements where they
should be drawn. Â The frame painting code would honor the
position and clip that the front end set. Â In this way, we
could have plugins do the right thing during pans and when
content is below the Fennec sidebars/urlbar.

You can check out how Fennec positions elements here:

http://mxr.mozilla.org/mobile-browser/source/chrome/content/browser.js#2937

The end result in this work is that we get over 25fps when
Sorenson encoded videos.Â  Over the next weeks and months, I
hope to see more video content honoring Fennec’s user agent
and provide optimized content.Â  (YouTube and other sites do
not recognized Fennec’s UA, yet).

This fast path is only implemented on Maemo, but it can be
implemented on any platform assuming the plugin has support
to draw directly into a memory buffer.

You also can check out the details in bug 528551.
