title: A Short History of Mozilla on Windows Mobile
date: 2009-02-10


I thought it might be nice to reflect on my involvement in
porting the Mozilla to Windows Mobile.

In 2004 we had a project called Minimo — it was meant as a
lighter weight build-time configuration of Mozilla for
GTK. To showcase the build options, we had an application
called TestGtkEmbed that developers could use to test
against benchmarks, etc. As the name implies, it was just a
testing application — it didn’t have browser features like
bookmarks, session history, preference management, etc.

At the end of 2004, I was hired by the Mozilla Foundation
working for Chris Hofmann, who was the director of
engineering. I started on porting this set of build options
to Windows Mobile. At this point, there was no real desire
to build an application — I was happy to just continue
building a browser engine that could be part of another
application.

I really had no desire to do Windows Mobile
development. However, at the time, it was really the only
devices available that people could by off the street and
run very large applications on (think: a modern web
browser). The idea was that you could do direct-to-consumer
development.

We found that there was some work done by Garrett Blythe (i
don’t have a better link, sorry) at Netscape in 2002 which
we could leverage — there was a partial patch to NSPR for
windows mobile. Garrett was responsible for an effort to
port Netscape to Windows CE. His basic approach to porting
from Win32 -> WinCE is is what I continued using (and we
still use most of it today).

At the beginning of 2005, Brad Lassey started helping and
around March 2005 we had much of the platform ported
over. Below is the picture of the first time mozilla
rendered google windows mobile phone:

If you want to see other pictures, check out rebron’s posts
from way back when.

At some point, we needed to branch away from using WinEmbed
(basically the same thing as TestGtkEmbed i mentioned above,
but for windows) and decided it was a good idea to build a
UI for Minimo on Windows Mobile that end users could
use. Looking at something we might be able to share between
the linux/gtk version of Minimo and Window Mobile, we
decided to write the UI in XUL. The size/space measurement
for using XUL were very small compared to the flexibility
you got (we were thinking extensions).

Working from Brazil, Marcio Galli was basically responsible
for the front end. We experimented with a bunch of things
like social bookmarking, geolocation, device API, and
widgets. We learned alot, and some of this ended up being
the basis for a draft spec.

In April 2006, I stopped working on Minimo full time and
started other mobile work for Mozilla. The Minimo project
continued. I tried to work fix the occasional bug, but
development basically ended.

At the end of 2007, I blogged about the end of Minimo (the
windows mobile mozilla browser) and a new effort called
Fennec. Our team now is much larger than the original
effort; we have people in QA, Press, IT, UX, Marketing all
thinking about Mobile.

Now, we have our first public milestone release. A
completely new font backend, cairo support, extension
support, and basically everything that Firefox has.

Today is the rebirth of this browser: Better, stronger,
faster. We have a way to go before we declare a “1.0″
release, but hope you come with us and participate in open
source, mozilla, and Fennec – our mobile browser.
