title: Mozilla Fennec Future – A post from the past
date: 2012-01-25

I wrote this back in October.  Never posted it.  Here it is
for posterity and maybe some quick reflections.

Start-up performance and memory usage have been the two of
the biggest concerns our users have had with Firefox for
Android.  On the fastest Android devices, the browser starts
up in about 2 seconds.  We, and our users, believe that this
is completely unacceptable.  We have been exploring ways to
improve both startup speed and memory usage.  One of the
outcomes has been to build a prototype that uses Android’s
native UI instead of XUL.  Although not a silver bullet,
this prototype shows big wins in both areas.

Historically we’ve built our Android user interface with
XUL.  XUL is a very flexible UI toolkit.  This flexibility
comes at a cost. It requires that we have to load all of
Gecko, our rendering engine, before being able to start
using XUL.  So, before we can show any browser UI, we have
to load all of Gecko.  A lot of progress has been made to
improve Gecko startup, but we aren’t able to provide the
same startup experience that native Java widgets can
provide.  Just to be clear, this isn’t actually because XUL
is slow, it is just that, on Android, bring up native
widgets is very fast and loading libraries is very slow.

Our prototype shows that we have a 6MB RSS memory win when
comparing our current build to a Fennec nightly build.  This
doesn’t include the RSS usage caused by a second ‘child’
gecko process.  We can have a fully functional Awesome Bar
up and ready for you in under 300ms.  Keep in mind that this
is a prototype and the actual numbers of a more full
featured browser will vary.

A native UI will have some challenges of its own to
overcome. We’re coordinating with the Jetpack project to
build strong support for extensions. We’re talking with our
localization teams about how to ensure we support users
around the world.

Our hope is to build future versions of the Firefox for
Android user interface using native Java.  Our engineering
teams are already taking this project on with the aim of
building this technology into the Firefox for Android
experience. It’s too early to estimate when we’ll be ready
to replace the XUL UI, but the team is working quickly and
with focus.

We have a lot of work to do, and you can help.  If you would
like to get involved, especially if you have experience
building native Android applications, now is the time. Take
a look at our [wiki][] for more information, or grab the source
from [birch][].  Also see the
mozilla dev-planning mailing list for a discussion.

[wiki]: https://wiki.mozilla.org/Fennec/NativeUI
[birch]: http://hg.mozilla.org/projects/birch/
