title: Geolocation today
date: 2008-08-09

At the Mozilla Summit, Brad Lassey and I presented on a
session called Device APIs. My first demo was on something
called Geolocation. The idea, which I have spoken about
before, is that we should expose the user's physical
location on earth to web sites via the DOM. This idea has
become quite popular and now is being flushed out in the
whatwg and w3c. Recently, I added support for an early draft
of the spec to Mozilla and have a patch which updates it to
the latest draft. This functionality provides the backend
support to handle various geolocation providers (a
geolocation provider is something that, um, provides
geolocations such as a GPS device, a Wifi->location
service, etc). Missing from this implementation is the user
interface that enables you to allow geolocation requests
from the web. This functionality will be provided via addons
or via the application itself.

For Firefox, I have created a Geolocation Addon that
provides the user interface. This initial version allows you
to statically set your location; it doesn't listen to any
GPS, or use any other location device. You might think that
this doesn't make sense, but for the people that have a
desktop pc somewhere in their house, something like this
will allow them to participate in geolocation. Of course, I
see this extension expanding to support devices. In fact, I
started on a NMEA geolocation provider for Mozilla. When I
have time, I will merge this code into the Geolocation Addon
unless you beat me to it!

I also added a user interface in Fennec on the n810 devices
to enable geolocation. If you have a n810, be sure sure to
check out Fennec.

The functionality is exposed off of the 'navigator' object
in the DOM. So, the simplest example that is useful is
probably a google maps demo:

In your webpage's onload handler, do something like this:

   navigator.geolocation.watchPosition(updateLocation);

updateLocation is called whenever your position changes and
is passed the new location as a parameter. You simple need
to handle it:

   function updateLocation(location) {
            // do something with: location.latitude and location.longitude
   }

The live page is here. You can try it out if you install the
geolocation addon I mentioned above, as well as applying the
latest draft spec patch. The patch will land soon, and you
will be able to grab a nightly to try it out.

Of course, exposing such sensitive details such as your
location does raise privacy concerns. Most of our Session at
the Summit dealt with how device apis, and in particular
geolocation, should handled. For geolocation, if the user
does nothing, no geolocation information is exposed. In
Fennec as well as in the Geolocation Addon, we use something
called the info bar.

The first is 'exact' which means that we will pass on the
exact location the geolocation device gives us. For example,
if your GPS gives back your position to the nearest foot,
that is exactly what we will give to the web site.

The second is 'neighborhood' which means that we are going
to 'somehow' modify the location so that we drop
precision/accuracy. The exact algorithm to do this has not
been thought through and your suggestions are welcome. The
idea behind this is that you might want a mapping
application to know exactly where you are, but maybe you do
not want the -- insert your favorite movie ticket purchasing
site -- knowing exactly where you are.

The last option is 'Nothing' which, of course, means to
ignore the request.

Get involved! You can provide feedback on draft spec, you
can start filing bugs against our implementation, and you
can start enabling your site for geoloccation!
