title: Powered By Mozilla
date: 2008-04-18

John Slater put together a logo called "Powered by
Mozilla". The idea here is to show your users that the same
rendering widget that is used in the Mozilla products
Firefox, and Thunderbird is also used in your
product. Check out this [post][].

There are bunch of questions about around this effort and
getting feedback is crucial to making the successful. Here
some the questions at come to my mind:

Administration and review. How does a software developer get
this icon. What does the actual process look like? I would
hope that this is not very complicated in any way and it
also has to respect the nature of many closed source
commercial vendors that cannot discuss anything about their
product before it is released without a nondisclosure
agreement. I would love it if if you could just go to a
webpage type in a little bit of information such as who the
person or company that is this being granted the use of the
logo, agree that it can be revoked, press a button, and then
be able to directly download the logos. I'm really hoping
that an application review by human is not required. Is a
require a review required in order to protect such a
trademark?

In the post there is a mention of lineage. I guess it
relates to how much source code was used from Mozilla in
making this embedded application. For example, if I just
used NSPR, could I use this logo? We need to carve out what
pieces of the Mozilla stack or required to ship as part of
"Powered By Mozilla". I would argue that you must use most
of the application stack you couldn't just use the
JavaScript library and use this logo in your app.

Furthermore, how fragmented can this embedded application
be? Suppose I hated SVG and I thought the web was better off
without it. I rolled my own browser and used the entire
Mozilla stack, but I disabled as SVG. Would that qualify for
this program? I would hope not. We don't need a fragmented
web.

It shouldn't be this program's business to verify, review,
or think about quality issues in the applications that use
the logo. Yes we all want better software, I'm just not sure
that this program can or should be used as a stick to get
better software. It's way too subjective, you risk the good
ole boy system, and no one has time to QA a stream of
products that may be applying to this program.

[post]: http://blog.robotfromthefuture.com/powered-by-mozilla
