title: Joey - Syndicate yourself
date: 2007-03-16

The simple task of taking text, images, video from your
desktop to your phone is hard. There really is no “Copy and
Paste to my phone”. There are some solutions for text — like
SMS — for which Google has a neat little SMS addon. For
images and small videos there is MMS which sorta of works,
but the the interface on the phone is somewhat limiting —
For example, a MMS from myself to myself, i really do not
care about seeing the sender or recipient. That just takes
up screen real estate.

For both of these media types, you usually must view them n
different apps or in different parts of the same app on your
phone. So, if we had something that would be able to send
some text then later send an image, either you would have to
send both as MMS or you would have to see these messages in
different places (one message in the SMS part of the
messaging app, and one message in the MMS part of the
messaging app). Not very consistent. And, probably some
phones interleave these messages, but most don’t.
The other thing about today model is that the pipe between
the desktop and your phone is dumb – it just passes the data
along. For the media that is currently passed, I suppose
that is fine. Lets consider what we could do if the pipe was
smarter.

Suppose on your phone you wanted to know the Word of the
Day. In Firefox 2, you could use something called Live
Bookmarks to add a bookmark that has the name of this
bookmark be the actual Word of the Day. So in my Firefox, I
see something like this:

today’s word happens to be “rococo“. Each and every day this
word is different. Cool, huh?.


What if you wanted this ability on your phone?


In today’s world, this isn’t trivial — you would have to
either:

     (a) manually send yourself an SMS each and everyday
from your browser
     (b) use the phones browser to navigate to
http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/mwwod.pl
     (c) write some sort of java application that does this for you
automatically.

None of these options are ideal today (b) and some will
never be (a, c). Furthermore, this Now lets generalize, what
if you wanted the ability to be notified any time a specific
piece of any webpage changes.

Suppose that you are a news junkie and want to be notified
anytime CNN.com changes its main story’s title. With a smart
pipe, we don’t need to the actual text of the story’s title,
but rather meta data about how to fetch and translate it
similar to what Live Bookmarks does.

So, from your phone you could see _your_ latest headlines.
With something like this, you might be able to explicitly
build the exact content that is of interest to you and you
along. You might be able to indicate parts of all of
webpages that you visit in the browser, and have that
specific content up to date and in the appropriate format
for your phone, without having to write a single line of
code. Promising, huh?  Where is all of this going?

I am working on a project call Joey — as in the kangaroo.
The focus idea is that you will be able to take some of the
data, media, meta data with you when you leave your desktop
or laptop and have this data be easily accessible on your
phone.

This is an experimentation run under labs.mozilla.com with
no real plans to productize it, but rather try something to
see if it works, help our understanding of this space, and
help our communities start thinking about mobile in
different ways.

If you would like to help, have ideas, or like to cheer us
on, please take a look at our wiki:

http://wiki.mozilla.org/Labs/Joey, or join us on irc:
irc.mozilla.org #joey.

We are planning a release of a highly alpha version of the
Joey in April / May. Stay tune for more details!
