title: The new "walled garden"
date: 2007-01-17



200701120020
The new walled garden is not the content you can view on
your phone, but rather the applications that you can install
on your phone. For many years, getting to content on a phone
is hard. As we have seen with the super high end phones,
this isn’t a problem. The Nokia S60 series, the IPhone, and
Windows Mobile devices all have little problem accessing and
displaying the internet at large. On these phones, you
aren’t going to be stuck at a wap portal wondering how to
get to the content that you normally can at a desktop pc,
but rather you are going to be able to access the exact same
content, every time. Moving down to lower end phones, some
of the default webpages that you see in the installed
microbrowser are search pages. For example, many TMobile
phones default to a google start page which transcodes the
content into something that the microbrowser can use. Access
to the open internet via a transcoding layer — very cool
stuff. The consumer is not restricted to specific pages that
the operator defined.

This is a quote from Jobs in the NYTimes:
&#8220;We define everything that is on the phone,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;You don&#8217;t want your phone to be like a
PC. The last thing you want is to have loaded three apps on
your phone and then you go to make a call and it
doesn&#8217;t work anymore. These are more like iPods than
they are like computers.&#8221;

He is right, we do not want it to act like a PC. We don’t
want to be treated like we are 3 years old. We want a
marketplace where people can innovation. We want choice.
This is a consistent problem that I have found across most
of the phones available. If you want to write a really neat
piece of software, you find yourself having to deal with
“locked” devices. It would be interesting if an Operator
opened the doors and was much more permissive. For example,
selling open phones and encouraging the mobile community to
target their branded phones. You might be able to start a
huge buzz of interesting apps that only work on XYZ phones.

